(/authentication/social-connections/github) update guide (#1602)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/authentication/social-connections/github.mdx

---
title: Add GitHub as a social connection

> description: Use GitHub to authenticate users with OAuth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to allow users to sign up and sign in to your Clerk app with their GitHub account using OAuth.
```

1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.
1. Select **Add connection** and choose **For all users**.
1. In the **Choose provider** dropdown, select **GitHub**.
1. Select **Add connection**.

## Configure for your production instance

For _production instances_, you must provide custom credentials which involves generating your own **Client ID** and **Client Secret** using your GitHub account.

To make the setup process easier, it's recommended to keep two browser tabs open: one for your [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) and one for your [GitHub Developers](https://GitHub.com/developers/applications) page.

<Steps>
  ### Enable GitHub as a social connection in Clerk

  1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.
  1. Select **Add connection** and choose **For all users**.
  1. In the **Choose provider** dropdown, select **GitHub**.

>   1. Ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on. Keep the modal and page open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on.
  1. Save the **Authorized redirect URI** somewhere secure. Keep the modal and page open.
```

  ### Set the Client ID and Client Secret in your Clerk Dashboard

>   1. Go to [GitHub's Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/apps) by selecting your profile photo in the top-right navigation, then choose **Settings**. In the sidebar, select **Developer settings**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. On a separate page, go to [GitHub's Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/apps).
```

>   1. In the sidebar, select **OAuth Apps** then select [**New OAuth app**](https://github.com/settings/applications/new). You'll be redirected to the **Register a new OAuth app** form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the sidebar, select **OAuth Apps**, then select [**New OAuth app**](https://github.com/settings/applications/new). You'll be redirected to the **Register a new OAuth app** form.
```

>   1. Enter your **Application name** and **Homepage URL**. Keep the page open for the next step.
>   1. Navigate back to your Clerk Dashboard. In the **Add connection for all users** modal under the **Configure GitHub**, copy the **Authorized redirect URI**.
>   1. Navigate back to GitHub and paste the string in **Authorization callback URL**.
>   1. Select **Register application**. You'll be redirected to your app's **General** page.
>   1. Select **Generate a new client secret**. Save your **Client ID** and **Client secret** somewhere secure.
>   1. Navigate back to your Clerk Dashboard. Paste these values into the respective fields.
>   1. Select **Add connection**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Complete the form. Under **Authorization callback URL**, paste the **Authorized redirect URI** value you saved from the Clerk Dashboard.
  1. Once you're finished completing the form, select **Register application**. You'll be redirected to your app's **General** page.
  1. Select **Generate a new client secret**. Save your **Client ID** and **Client secret** somewhere secure.
  1. Navigate back to your Clerk Dashboard where the modal should still be open and paste these values into the respective fields.
  1. Select **Add connection**.

  > [!NOTE]
  > If the modal or page is not still open, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page in the Clerk Dashboard. Select the **GitHub** connection. Under **Use custom credentials**, you can paste the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** into their respective fields.
```

<Steps>
  ### Enable GitHub as a social connection in Clerk

  1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.
  1. Select **Add connection** and choose **For all users**.
  1. In the **Choose provider** dropdown, select **GitHub**.
  1. Ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on.
  1. Save the **Authorized redirect URI** somewhere secure. Keep the modal and page open.

  ### Create a GitHub app

  1. On a separate page, go to [GitHub's Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/apps).
  1. In the sidebar, select **OAuth Apps**, then select [**New OAuth app**](https://github.com/settings/applications/new). You'll be redirected to the **Register a new OAuth app** form.
  1. Enter your **Application name** and **Homepage URL**.
  1. In **Authorization callback URL**, paste the **Authorized Redirect URI** you saved from the Clerk Dashboard.
  1. Select **Register application**. You'll be redirected to your GitHub app's **General** page.

>   1. Select **Generate a new client secret**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Steps>
  ### Enable GitHub as a social connection in Clerk

  1. In the Clerk Dashboard, navigate to the [**SSO Connections**](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/sso-connections) page.
  1. Select **Add connection** and choose **For all users**.
  1. In the **Choose provider** dropdown, select **GitHub**.
  1. Ensure that both **Enable for sign-up and sign-in** and **Use custom credentials** are toggled on.
  1. Save the **Authorized redirect URI** somewhere secure. Keep the modal and page open.

  ### Create a GitHub app

  1. On a separate page, go to [GitHub's Developer Settings](https://github.com/settings/apps).
  1. In the sidebar, select **OAuth Apps**, then select [**New OAuth app**](https://github.com/settings/applications/new). You'll be redirected to the **Register a new OAuth app** form.
  1. Enter your **Application name** and **Homepage URL**.
  1. In **Authorization callback URL**, paste the **Authorized Redirect URI** you saved from the Clerk Dashboard.
  1. Select **Register application**. You'll be redirected to your GitHub app's **General** page.

>   1. Select **Generate a new client secret**.

Reviewer: should we move this to the next step? see the next comment

  ### Set the Client ID and Client Secret in your Clerk Dashboard

>   1. In the GitHub app's **General** page, save your **Client ID** and **Client secret** somewhere secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. In the GitHub app's **General** page, select **Generate a new client secret**. Save your **Client ID** and **Client secret** somewhere secure.
```
